All right, next up we're gonna look at
the landmark regions, which are things
like our nav or header, footer,
article, section, aside, and so on.
I think on this page, or no, I probably
did it earlier on where I linked to, no,
right here, this link right here does
give you a bit more information.
It's from the w3.org, just on what
being a landmark region even means, but
they do help with assistive technologies,
where people can navigate directly to
different landmark regions on a site, so
they can get through them a bit faster.
Other than sections where I mentioned a
bit earlier that you have to do a bit more
work to get that to work,
the one thing where I already did it,
where we had the site header earlier and
the site footer primary navigation.
These types of things, I really do think
when you're using these landmark regions,
you should give them a class and not just
style them based on the selector because
they can be, other than your main all of
them can be reused in different ways.
So classes really help out just to
distinguish the different ways they can
be used.
And so we're gonna get into some of
the more specific use cases for them, but
there's one very generic one,
which is your section.
And the section tends to be something
that's just more generic than
everything else.
So for the section, I do like actually
doing a section class, because there
will be times you might have, like right
now, when we're looking at our design.
We have these just sections of content,
but then you might, the client comes back,
they want to blog, and there's articles,
and in those articles, maybe you have
sections, and then those sections
need to be styled a bit differently.
So using the element selector,
I'm always a little bit wary, even though
it's kind of annoying sometimes to
just come in and have a section.
I am, I do personally think that
putting it in the layout makes sense.
>> Kevin Powell: And coming in here and
just doing a section.
For me, it's layout-ish because all
it's doing is creating some extra
spacing every time I have it.
And that's just because
every time I have a section,
I need some space on the top and
the bottom of them.
There's two different variations of this.
You might have noticed it,
or you might not have, and
if we look actually at
the smaller screens, and
this is where you're just going back and
forth between figma, looking at things,
how much space is there, grabbing,
and here you dive in deep enough.
You'll get it highlighting.
And in there's like a padding section in
the UI that will show you how much padding
is actually in that area.
So you can grab those padding numbers and
use them.
So yeah, we'd want to grab those
numbers and use them for there.
And you'll notice in the mobile version of
it,if you go through and examine them all,
you caneyeball it.
Once you see the first one and then you
look through everything, the spacing is
always the same, but when we get to the
desktop versions, there are differences.
So in the desktop version here, this
one is a little bit narrower than here.
This is big, this one's a bit tighter,
top and bottom.
This one goes back to a larger space.
And on the second page,
the hero is the same.
Larger space,
I think these two are larger, and
that last one is tighter again.
In general, you should see this
consistency between things.
You might have these, a container,
a container narrow, container wide.
You might have the same thing
with your section spacing, but
you probably shouldn't see a different
value in every single one you go into.
If you do that, your designer's not
doing a very good job as a designer,
cuz designs should have some
consistency throughout them.
So if you do see everything as different,
you can freelance it a little bit and
just choose a value that you'd wanna use.
Oops, just to know if you want to zoom in,
the shortcut in Figma is space bar and
then command, or if you're on Windows,
space bar then control, but
you have to push the space bar first.
If you do Control or Command first and
then push space bar, it doesn't work.
It's kind of frustrating.
But space bar just so
you can zoom in, like that.
Now, because my UI is zoomed out so
much, I can't see my values here, but
I would take the same
approach that we looked at.
So in this case,
it's the top and the bottom.
We know it needs to include
the background color.
So I would do padding-block.
Just like we were using our margin in line
before to add spacing on the left and
the right, padding-block is only gonna add
the padding on the top and the bottom, so
our block axis going up and down.
Again its a logical property.
It's, for me, nice to do that rather
than saying padding three REM zero, just
cuz then you might want to overwrite that
zero on one specific area or something.
So padding block only, top and bottom.
I forget what it is.
I'm gonna put two numbers in here and
then verify them after.
But we could have the padding
block like that, and
then we need a media query
because we need larger sizes.
And this, again, is where nesting
is my favorite thing in the world,
because you can include the media
query within the selector, so
you don't have to repeat the selector,
which makes life easier.
It just keeps organized.
Every all the code for my section is here,
I don't have to stress about scrolling
down, finding a media
query somewhere else.
Where is it?
It's all in one spot.
The one thing people have asked me
about is by then you end up with tons
of media queries, because every component,
every element, ends up with a media query.
Does it bloat the code base?
Basically every host now does compression
server side of your CSS file, and
the thing they're really good
at is compressing repeated code.
And I've done tests with media
queries like 10,000 media queries and
I remember what but it was like 700 kb
file that turned into like 32 bytes
that was getting delivered to the user
just because the compression is so good.
So if you're repeating media queries
really don't worry about it.
If you're worried about optimization
of file size if your CSS file, it means
you're pretty good, cause every compress
one of your images a little bit better and
you've probably saved more than you would
off of the compression of your CSS file,
we're optimizing it.
I think I did 760 last time.
We're gonna talk more about breakpoints
once we get to the columns and
deciding where they are.
So I'm just using that number and
I'm using the range syntax once again.
And here I would just say padding block
is I'm just gonna use six again I think
these numbers are wrong.
So I'll verify that in a minute but we'll
come and take a look at the website and
then go back to my html and
I'm just gonna use Control + F,
if you're on Command,
Command + F to open up the find.
And I'm just gonna look for all of my
sections so I can add that class to them.
And again,
you could select in this project.
If you did it directly on your
section element as your selector,
you'd probably be fine, but
I'm just thinking big picture.
It's not that hard to come in
with a class of section on there.
If you want a different name for it,
you could always do like padding
large something I don't know.
I just like keeping these things simple.
So in each one of these,
I'm just going to add that on there.
Use my search feature
to get to the next one.
You could even do a find and
replace and do it quickly.
You could end up with
all of these at once.
There's a lot of different ways to speed
yourself up as you're using VS code if
you're fancy with it.
I use this all the time,
and I'm not a power user.
>> Kevin Powell: So I can see that
I brought some space in here.
Now my content isn't all jammed
together and all touching each other,
another space coming here,
another space coming here.
So I've done something right.
At least my styles are working.
And when I increase the size of it,
there we go, you can see
that the space got bigger because we're
hitting that media query breakpoint.
>> Kevin Powell: The one thing,
as I mentioned, is in the Figma file,
we do have the different
sizes that are coming in.
So some of them are smaller and
some of them are bigger.
So let's go get the actual
sizes that I did provide.
So, 3.75 up to eight and a 4.5.
I'll try and remember that.
So this should be a 3.75.
This should be an eight,
which is very big.
And if you got the sizes directly
from the Figma file and using pixels,
it's that same debate.
If the user did increase their font size,
do we want the font size to
increase this padding or not.
Maybe you'd prefer to be coming in and
actually using pixel values here.
Most of the time, users are zooming in,
but there are users who do change their
size of their font, so
you do wanna take that into account.
With nesting,
we do want to be a little bit careful, but
we do want to modify our class here, and
I don't mind coming in one more level
here and creating that modifier.
If you're doing it with the modifier
classes, rather than the data attributes,
you would have to come outside and
do the section.
I'm calling mine compact just because
we're compacting the padding on the top
and the bottom.
So you could create
a new selector here and
then have the media query for
that one there and then change it.
For me,
because I'm using the data attribute,
I can include it right here and
do my ampersand and
then data padding = compact.
And then we could change
the padding on there.
Whoops, sorry about that.
I didn't realize that put the variable.
I think that was eight rem, there we go.
In this case, I just realized I'm not
doing this with a custom property.
I'm just changing the value of this.
Why I did it here,
actually overwriting the property and
down below with the wrappers.
I did it with the custom property
4.5, sorry, 4.5rem.
I don't have a great answer for.
So I think I'm actually gonna
change this to use a custom
property to be more consistent, 3.75rem.
You don't need to,
it's just a habit I really like having.
This could even be padding block, but
that's the only value that would change or
be the top and the bottom, so
I don't mind doing it this way.
So that would be var padding.
And then for each one of these,
we can switch that out right here.
I'm gonna push Ctrl+ D.
If you're on a Mac, it's Command+D.
it's gonna select both instances of it, so
I can just replace both at the same time.
And so we have the padding that we
should have some larger ones and
some smaller ones.
We're gonna be coming with the background
colors soon, which is gonna
make these a lot more obvious, but
I can see the compact one is already,
I have a lot less space coming in here,
which I'm gonna have to verify cuz some of
the spacing looks a little, no,
I think we're I think we're good.
Yeah, we have less spacing there we have
more spacing on the other area, maybe.
I might have to come in.
I don't think I used that yet.
So all the way at the top,
we had the hero.
So the hero,
I am actually gonna add a section to that.
We're gonna talk more about the hero
in choosing when something is gonna use
a class like this,
which is more like a utility class,
versus when something would just get
styled on a selector like that one.
But I think for the hero thing,
putting the section here makes sense,
and then we can just come in.
Let me just turn word wrap on for a sec.
So we can have our section
with the class on there, and
then I could say that
the data padding = compact.
And again, I just find it's more,
using the data attributes like this,
is the alternative for
this would be section and
then probably section compact,
which I find having section with
padding compact is just a bit more
descriptive of what's happening.
You could, of course, do the padding
compact like that as well instead.
I just find you don't really see
people doing modifiers that way.
They usually try and keep them short.
So with the data attribute, I find
that's one of the reasons I like it is
I find I become more descriptive in
how I'm what things are doing, and
that's why I like using them.
So we had that section, and
then we also needed it down on this one,
start your forging adventure.
So I'm gonna look that up.
Start your foraging adventure section
data padding = narrow compact, sorry.
There we go.
And once we have the background colors and
other things we should start seeing
these come through a lot more.